=head1 NAME

fabsys_db-clean - Cleanup dangling references in the FABS database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys db-clean> [B<--brids> <I<brid>>+] [B<--all>] [B<--recent>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys db-clean> command can be used to cleanup unnecessary lingering
items in the FABS database. This command should not normally need to be used in
everyday operation, but changes in FABS across releases (or bugs) may result in
some database items not getting removed automatically. When this happens and
the FABS database grows to a cumbersome size, the B<fabsys db-clean> command
can be used to remove unneeded items in the database.

One of B<--brids>, B<--all>, or B<--recent> must be specified.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--brids> <I<brid>>+

Only clean database items for the given backup run IDs (I<brid>s). It is an
error to specify a backup run that is actively running (you can use B<fabsys
backup-kill> to force a backup run to no longer be active, if needed).

=item B<--all>

Clean database items for everything in the database (except for backup runs
that are actively running).

=item B<--recent>

Clean database items from "recent" backup runs. This does the exact same thing
that B<fabsys server> does in the background to automatically clean the
database, and so should not normally be needed. This may be useful to test or
reproduce issues with the background processing of B<fabsys server>, or to run
periodically if B<fabsys server> is stopped between backup runs for any reason.

A "recent" backup run is currently defined as a backup run that was started
within the last 12 hours, but may change over time. If I<any> backup run is
actively running, nothing in the database will be cleaned.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration
(specifically, the database access information), typically in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2022, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
