=head1 NAME

fabsys_backup-retry - Resume a failed backup run

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys backup-retry> <I<brun_id>>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys backup-retry> command causes a backup run that was previously
marked as failed to resume. The backup run is retried from the last successful
stage of the backup, and proceeds as normal.

A backup run can be marked as "failed" either due to errors, or because someone
killed the backup run with C<fabsys_backup-kill(1)>. A single error normally
does not cause a backup run to be marked as "failed".

The failure to backup a single volume does not cause the entire backup run to
fail, so any such error must prevent the entire backup from proceeding (e.g.,
if we cannot examine the vldb for volumes to backup). Operations are also
retried when an error occurs, so a backup run that is marked as "failed" must
have encountered an error multiple times. It is recommended that an
administrator first determine why a backup run failed, and fix it, before
running B<fabsys backup-retry> on that backup run.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item <I<brun_id>>

The backup run id to resume. Backup run ids can be shown with the
C<fabsys_backup-status(1)> command.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration
(specifically, the database access information), typically in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
