=head1 NAME

fabsys_dump-list - List dumps in the FABS backup database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys dump-list> (<I<id>> [<I<id>> ...] | B<--all> | [B<--brid> <I<brid>>]
    [B<--volid> <I<volid>> | B<--volume> <I<volume>>]
    [B<--before <I<time>>] [B<--after <I<time>>]
    [B<--redundant>[=<I<redundancy>>]]
    [B<-n> <I<n_dumps>>] )
    [B<--verbose>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys dump-list> command allows an administrator to lists dumps of
volumes that have been backed up by FABS.

To search for volume dumps to restore from, see C<fabsys_dump-find(1)>. Both
commands are similar, but B<dump-find> has different options that are more
useful when searching for a dump to restore from (such as file paths, and user
authorization).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item <I<id>> [<I<id>> ...]

If at least one numeric volume dump ID is given, B<fabsys dump-list> will show
volume dump information for those dump IDs.

If a dump ID is given, you cannot also give any of the other search criteria
options like B<--volume> or B<--before>.

=item B<--all>

If this flag is given, list all dumps in the database. You cannot specify this
flag together with other search criteria or dump IDs.

=item B<--brid> <I<brid>>

Search for volume dumps in the given backup run ID (brid).

=item B<--volid> <I<volid>> | B<--volume> <I<volume>>

Search for volume dumps for the given volume. If B<--volume> is given, the
given volume name or volid is resolved to an RW volid in the VLDB (using
B<vos>).

If B<--volid> is given, B<fabsys dump-list> interprets it as an RW volid, and
it is not looked up in the VLDB. This can be useful if the given volume no
longer exists, or may have a different volid in the current VLDB.

=item B<--before> <I<time>>

=item B<--after> <I<time>>

Search for volume dumps taken before or after the given timestamp.

The given time can be given as a unix timestamp with a leading "@" (e.g.
"--before @1644102842"), or as an ISO-8601 string, or any format understood by
the Python module dateutil.parser (e.g. "2022-02-05 23:14:02 UTC").

=item B<--redundant>[=<I<redundancy>>]

Search for redundant volume dumps, with a redundancy of I<redundancy>. If
B<--redundant> is given without specifying a value, the default redundancy is
1.

A volume dump is considered redundant if there are at least <I<redundancy>>
newer volume dumps for the same volume. For example, if B<--redundancy=3> is
given, B<fabsys dump-list> will only show volume dumps if there are at least 3
newer volume dumps for the same volume.

=item B<-n> <I<n_dumps>>

Only show a maximum of <I<n_dumps>>. By default, B<fabsys dump-list> will show
all matching dumps.

=item B<--verbose>

Print some extra information on stderr, such as our search criteria.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

    $ fabsys dump-list --volume vol.1 --before 2022-02-18 --redundant
    Volume dump id 2001, volume: 536871063 (vol.1)
      cloned at:    Mon Jan 31 16:25:07 2022
      last updated: Mon Jan 31 16:24:36 2022
      dump blob: /var/lib/fabs/fabs-dumps/cell-example.com/20/00/00/536871063/536871063.2001.dump
    Volume dump id 2003, volume: 536871063 (vol.1)
      cloned at:    Mon Feb 14 18:47:30 2022
      last updated: Mon Feb 14 18:46:57 2022
      dump blob: /var/lib/fabs/fabs-dumps/cell-example.com/20/00/00/536871063/536871063.8001.dump

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration
(specifically, the database access information), typically in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2022, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
