=head1 NAME

fabsys_server - Run the FABS server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys server> [B<--once>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys server> command runs the FABS server process. This server process
monitors the database for newly-scheduled backup runs, and drives the backup
process forwards. It also monitors for and retries failures during the backup
process, and sends out reports for finished backup runs, as well as any other
continuous activities that are necessary for FABS operation.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--once>

By default, B<fabsys server> runs continuously, monitoring the database for work
to do. With the B<--once> flag, it will instead just look in the database once,
process any work it finds, and then exit. This is primarily intended as a
debugging tool, but it could potentially be used to force work to be done
immediately.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

Without B<--once>, the B<fabsys server> process is a long-running process, but
only reads in config data from disk once during startup. If you make any
changes to the yaml FABS config files, you need to restart the B<fabsys server>
process for it to notice those changes. There is currently no way for
B<fabsys server> to re-read the on-disk config files while it is running.

For information on the config files and various config directives, see
C<fabsys_config(1)>.

=head1 SIGNALS

B<fabsys server> will exit gracefully on receiving the SIGINT or SIGTERM
signals. This will not cause any spawned jobs to quit; those will continue
processing the relevant work until they are finished, and then they will quit
on their own.

For example, when performing backup dumps, B<fabsys server> spawns a process to
handle each dump. Killing the B<fabsys server> process will not stop these dumps
after they have been started (and B<fabsys server> will not wait for them to
complete). Instead, B<fabsys server> will quit, and the dumps will continue to
be processed until they are finished, and then they will quit gracefully.

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration
(specifically, the database access information), typically in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>. The issuer must also be able write to the
configured volume blob storage directory, typically
B</var/lib/fabs/fabs-dumps/> by default.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
