=head1 NAME

fabsys_config - Query local FABS configuration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys config> (<I<key>> | B<--check> | B<--dump> | B<--dump-all>)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys config> command can be used to query specific configuration
directives from the local configuration, check the local configuration for
validity, or to dump the entire local configuration.

This page serves to document the command, as well as all known configuration
directives. For information about known configuration directives, see the
L<CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES> section.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item <I<key>>

If none of the other options are specified, the given argument is assumed to be
a configuration directive key. B<fabsys config> will grab the key from the
loaded configuration, and print its value to stdout. If the value is not a
plain scalar value (that is, if it is a list or a hash), the printed value will
be encoded in JSON.

=item B<--check>

This option causes B<fabsys config> just to try to load the local configuration,
and check it for certain errors. Any configuration errors will cause an error
message to be printed, and cause B<fabsys config> to exit with a nonzero exit
status.

Note that a zero exit status from B<fabsys config> does not necessarily mean
that a configuration is usable. This only checks for certain immediately
obvious errors, such as syntax errors in the configuration, or unreadable
config files. Checking for if a database url is actually reachable, for
example, is not performed.

=item B<--dump>, B<--dump-all>

Dump the loaded configuration data to stdout, in YAML format. The difference
between B<--dump> and B<--dump-all> is that B<--dump> just dumps configuration
directives that have been specified on disk or on the command-line. On the
other hand, B<--dump-all> dumps all values, including those that have been left
to their default values.

=back

=head1 CONFIG FILES

By default, FABS will load all configuration file snippets in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>, and merge them all into one combined config file.
If any command specifies the B<--config> option, FABS will instead just load
that specific config file.

=head1 CONFIGURATION FORMAT

The configuration file format is YAML. An example config file is provided to
demonstrate the basics of YAML syntax, but you can also view the current
effective configuration at any time by running B<fabsys config --dump-all>.

Note that in B<fabsys config> and FABS-related documentation and messages,
configuration keys are separated by a slash, for example:
"dump/include/volumes". Some other tools may refer to such a YAML key like
"dump.include.volumes", but FABS uses slashes instead.

=head1 CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES

=over 4

=item B<db/url>

The URL to use when connecting to our SQL database. This is a SQLAlchemy Core
URL, which follows RFC-1738, and typically looks like this:

    dialect://username:password@host:port/database

For example:

    mysql://scott:tiger@localhost/foo

or
    oracle://scott:tiger@dsn

SQLite database URLs look a little odd, due to the URLs using '/' as a
separator, which is of course identical to the traditional unix directory
separator:

    sqlite:////absolute/path/to/foo.db

For more details, see the SQLAlchemy Core documentation on database urls.
<http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/core/engines.html>

By default, the value for this directive is
C<sqlite:////var/lib/fabs/fabs.sqlite>. That is, we use a sqlite database in
C</var/lib/fabs/fabs.sqlite>.

Currently, FABS has been most thoroughly tested with a sqlite database, and so
using a sqlite db should be considered the most stable configuration.

FABS has also been tested with MariaDB, but there are some limitations due to
index size limits in MySQL/MariaDB. Specifically, if any backed up volumes
contain multiple symlinks in a path that is longer than about 766 bytes, we may
be unable to backup that volume. This is because MySQL/MariaDB cannot ensure
unique entries with strings longer than that limit.

=item B<db/batch_size>

This dictates how many items FABS changes at once, when updating or adding many
items into the database. Increasing this setting can make some bulk operations
go faster (for example, scheduling many volumes to be dumped), but may increase
the latency of other operations (for example, viewing backup status).

The default value is C<1024>. Normally you should not need to change this
setting.

=item B<db/default_job_timeout>

When running a backup, FABS enforces a time limit on certain operations, in
order to catch situations where a backup has stalled or exited uncleanly. This
option indicates what the default time limit should be for "quick" operations
that we do not expect to take long (for example, examining a volume via
B<vos>).

For some operations (such as actually dumping the volume), our time limit is
much larger, and is calculated in a different way. This option does not affect
those operations.

This option is given in seconds. The default value is C<600>, or 10 minutes.
Normally you should not need to change this option.

=item B<db/sqlite_foreign_keys>

You should normally not need to change this option. If this option is disabled
and B<db/url> specifies a sqlite database, foreign key relationships in the
database will not be enforced, which was the only behavior in FABS version 0.14
and earlier.

By default, this option is enabled. The only reason to disable this is to
workaround database corruption issues. If B<db/url> specifies a non-sqlite
database, this option is ignored.

=item B<afs/cell>

The AFS cell this instance of fabs is running for. By default, fabs will use
the local AFS cell, as determined by running B<fs wscell>.

=item B<afs/dumpscan>

The command to use when running B<afsdump_scan>. The default is just
C<afsdump_scan>.

Note that this is specified as a list, so you can pass additional arguments.
So, you must configure this as:

    afs:
      dumpscan: ['/path/to/afsdump_scan']

And NOT like this:

    afs:
      dumpscan: '/path/to/afsdump_scan'

=item B<afs/vos>

The command to use when running B<vos>. The default is just C<vos>.

Note that you must specify this as a list, as described in B<afs/dumpscan>.

=item B<afs/fs>

The command to use when running B<fs>. The default is just C<fs>.

Note that you must specify this as a list, as described in B<afs/dumpscan>.

=item B<afs/pts>

The command to use when running B<pts>. The default is just C<pts>.

Note that you must specify this as a list, as described in B<afs/dumpscan>.

=item B<afs/aklog>

The command to use when running B<aklog>. The default is just C<aklog>.

Note that you must specify this as a list, as described in B<afs/dumpscan>.

=item B<afs/localauth>

If enabled, fabs will use B<-localauth> when running privileged AFS commands
like B<vos>. If disabled, fabs will instead use B<k5start> with the configured
keytab in B<afs/keytab> to run privileged commands.

Enabling this option requires that the local machine has an AFS KeyFile, and
that the issuing user can read it.

The default value is disabled.

=item B<afs/keytab>

The keytab to use when authenticating to AFS for privileged commands when
B<afs/localauth> is disabled. The default value is
C</etc/fabs/afsadmin.keytab>.

=item B<afs/keytab_princ>

The principal to authenticate as when using B<afs/keytab>. If this is unset,
then fabs will just use the first principal in the keytab.

By default, this directive is unset.

=item B<k5start/command>

The command to use when running B<k5start>. The default is just C<k5start>.

Note that you must specify this as a list, as described in B<afs/dumpscan>.

=item B<log/level>

If this option is set, it forces the logging level to the given level. Valid
options are:

=over 4

=item *

debug

=item *

info

=item *

warning

=item *

error

=item *

critical

=back

If this option is set to C<debug>, fabs also adds a logger that logs all
messages to stderr, using the format in B<log/debug_format>.

By default, this option is not set, and so the logging level is controlled by
the logging configuration in B<log/config_file>.

=item B<log/config_file>

This specifies the logging configuration to use, as specified in another
configuration file. By default, fabs uses a configuration that logs to the
local syslog, using the C<daemon> facility, and only logs messages of level
INFO and higher.

The configuration file format is the configuration file format used by the
native Python logging facility, and is documented here:
<https://docs.python.org/2/library/logging.config.html#configuration-file-format>.

However, it may be easier to just look at the default configuration and modify
that. You can find the default configuration by running
B<fabsys config log/config_file> or B<fabsys config --dump-all>.

Note that in fabs logging, all messages have an associated "message-id" or
MID. This can be formatted in resulting log messages with the %(mid)s
formatting specifier. All logged messages are intended to have a unique
message-id that will not change in future releases. The exceptions are debug
messages, and log messages that originate from outside the fabs framework.

=item B<log/debug_format>

If B<log/level> is set to C<debug>, fabs logs all messages to stderr. This
option says what format to use when printing such messages.

The default value is similar to the pattern used in the normal default logging
configuration: "%(name)s %(levelname)s: %(message)s %(mid)s".

=item B<storage/clean_age>

Every time a backup run starts, FABS scans the temporary space in each
configured storage dir and deletes files that look stale and were not properly
cleaned up by FABS. This option indicates how old a file must be (in seconds)
in order to be considered stale. Typically you should not need to change this
option.

The default value is 1 week.

=item B<dump/storage_dirs>

This option indicates the directories where fabs stores dumped volume blobs.
These directories must be initialized with B<fabsys storage-init> before being
used.

The default value is a single directory, C</var/lib/fabs/fabs-dumps/>.

=item B<dump/parallel/total>

This option indicates the maximum number of dump jobs that can be running at
the same time. The default value is 100, so by default, at most 100 dump jobs
can be running at once.

=item B<dump/parallel/server>

This option indicates the maximum number of dump jobs per server that can be
running at the same time. The default value is 10, so by default, at most 10
dump jobs can be running against the same server at once.

=item B<dump/parallel/partition>

This option indicates the maximum number of dump jobs per partition that can be
running at the same time. The default value is 4, so by default, at most 4 dump
jobs can be running against the same partition at once.

=item B<dump/if_offline>

This option indicates what FABS should do if a volume appears to be offline
when FABS tries to dump it. The possible values for this are:

=over 4

=item error

An offline volume is treated as an error. If FABS encounters an offline volume
during the dumping process, the error will be logged and the job will retry the
operation, just like any other error.

=item skip

Offline volumes are ignored by FABS. If FABS encounters an offline volume
during the dumping process, FABS will skip processing the volume, as if FABS
had detected that the volume had not changed since the last backup run.

=back

If you do not expect FABS to encounter offline volumes during a backup run,
then this option should probably be set to C<error>. You may want to set this
to C<skip> if you deliberately keep certain volumes offline, and would prefer
for FABS to just skip over them.

The default value for this option is C<error>.

=item B<dump/include/volumes>

This option indicates which volumes fabs should try to back up when
B<fabsys backup-start> is run with the B<--all> option. This is a list of glob
patterns that will be used to match volume names. For example, specifying:

    ['app.*', 'conf.*']

Will cause all volumes that start with C<app.> or C<conf.> to be backed up.

The default value is an empty list, so no volumes are backed up by default.

Note that, in order for B<fabsys dump-find --path> to work properly, all of the
"parent" volumes for a volume must also be backed up. See the documentation for
B<--path> in C<fabsys_dump-find(1)> for details.

=item B<dump/include/fileservers>

This option is similar to B<dump/include/volumes>, but specifies servers
instead of volume names. The values in here are also not patterns, but literal
server names (that is, IPs or hostnames that resolve to IPs). If this option is
specified, any volumes on the given servers will be backed up, in addition to
any volumes matched by B<dump/include/volumes>.

For the purposes of this option, the fileserver for the RW site of the volume
is considered the fileserver for that volume.

The default value is an empty list, so no volumes are backed up by default.

=item B<dump/exclude/volumes>

This option is the same as B<dump/exclude/volumes>, except that it specifies
volumes that should NOT be backed up. If a volume is matched by any of the
B<dump/include/*> criteria, and is also matched by an exclude pattern, the
volume is not backed up.

The default value is:

    ['fabs.*']

So volumes starting with the name C<fabs.> will not be backed up. This is to
avoid backing up fabs' staging volumes used for restores (C<fabs.> is the
default prefix for staging restore volumes).

=item B<dump/exclude/fileservers>

This option is the same as B<dump/include/fileservers>, but specifies
fileservers that should NOT be backed up. If a volume is matched by any of the
B<dump/include/*> criteria, but resides on a fileserver specified in this
option, that volume will not be backed up.

The default value is an empty list, so by default no fileservers are avoided.

=item B<dump/filter_cmd/json>

This option specifies a command that, when run, provides additional include and
exclude patterns. The output of this command must be formatted as a JSON
object, and the values are appended to the configured B<dump/include/*> and
B<dump/exclude/*> values documented above.

The structure of the JSON object is as follows in this example. If the
specified command outputs this:

    {
        "include": {
            "volumes": ["inc.*"],
            "fileservers": ["inc-fs.example.com"],
        },
        "exclude": {
            "volumes": ["exc.*"],
            "fileservers": ["exc-fs.example.com"],
        },
    }

Then "inc.*" will be added to our B<dump/include/volumes> configuration,
"inc-fs.example.com" will be added to B<dump/include/fileservers>, "exc.*" will
be added to B<dump/exclude/volumes>, and "exc-fs.example.com" will be added to
B<dump/exclude/fileservers>.

As a simpler example, to just prevent fabs from backing up volumes on
C<fs3.example.com> and C<fs5.example.com>, make the B<dump/filter_cmd/json>
command output the following:

    {
        "exclude": {
            "fileservers": ["fs3.example.com", "fs5.example.com"],
        }
    }

Of course, it is simpler to have a script use an actual JSON encoder, rather
than trying to manually print out JSON itself.

Note that you must specify this directive as a list, as described in
B<afs/dumpscan>. The default is usually /etc/fabs/hooks/dump-filter.

=item B<dump/checksum>

This option specifies the checksum algorithm we should use to verify the
integrity of vos dump blobs. Note that this algorithm does not need to be
cryptographically secure (unless you are unsure of the security of your volume
blob storage).

The default value is "md5", since this is fast, and as mentioned, this does not
need to be cryptographically secure.

=item B<dump/error_limit>

When any part of a backup run encounters an error, fabs will attempt to retry
the operation from the last known good point. If something fails too many
times, fabs will stop retrying, and flag that portion of the backup as
permanently failed. This option dictates how many times fabs will retry such
operations before giving up.

The default value is 3, so by default, fabs will retry something 3 times
before giving up.

=item B<dump/max_unchanged_age>

If this option is non-zero, then fabs will force a dump of a volume that has
not changed in over B<dump/max_unchanged_age> seconds.

That is, normally when fabs detects that a volume has not been changed since
the last backup, fabs will skip dumping that volume. But when this option is
set, an unchanged volume will be dumped anyway, if it's older than
B<dump/max_unchanged_age> seconds.

This normally is not needed, since a single copy of a volume is enough to
restore any data in that volume. Using this option results in multiple
redundant copies being stored for the same volume over time, which can be
useful to defend against unforeseen issues in long-term tape storage, bugs, or
other problems.

=item B<dump/scan_links/abort_on_error>

This option indicates if scanning a volume dump for symlinks and mountpoints is
required. If scanning fails on a volume and this option is enabled, then
dumping that volume is aborted, and an error is recorded for the volume. If
scanning fails and this option is disabled, then dumping that volume continues
as normal, but symlink and mountpoint path information is not stored for the
volume. However, any error with scanning is still logged, and may be reported
by the backup report.

By default, this option is enabled.

The reason for scanning a volume for symlinks and mountpoints is so FABS can
later determine which paths refer to which AFS volumes, according to the
backed-up data. If this fails for a volume but the volume is still backed up,
then a user may not be able to correctly restore data from a child volume via
its path. An administrator can still restore data, though, if they know what
the name of the relevant volume is.

=item B<report/txt/command>

When a backup run finished, fabs can generate a "report" of the backup run,
indicating when the backup run started, finished, how many volumes it backed
up, how many errors it encountered, and various other information.

If this option is specified, the specified command is run with a plain text
human-readable report given on its standard input. As an example, to send a
report to a certain email alias, you may specify a script that does the
following, if you have sendmail or a sendmail replacement configured to be able
to send email:

    #!/bin/sh

    (
        echo "From: noreply@example.com"
        echo "To: fabs-admins@example.com"
        echo "Subject: fabs backup report"
        echo
        cat
    ) | sendmail -t -i

By default, this option is not set, so no report is generated.

=item B<report/json/command>

This option is the same as B<report/txt/command>, except that the report is
specified as machine-readable JSON, instead of human-readable plain text. The
data provided in stdin is intended to be interpreted by a script or program
that will format its own report, and send it out.

An example script to interpret the JSON information is provided in
F<example_fabsreport.pl> in the FABS documentation directory.

=item B<report/only_on_error>

By default, the commands mentioned in B<report/txt/command> and
B<report/json/command> are run every time a backup run finishes. If instead you
would prefer to only generate reports when at least one error is encountered,
enable this option.

By default, this option is disabled, so reports are sent even when nothing went
wrong.

=item B<restore/error_limit>

This is the same as the B<dump/error_limit> directive, but applied to restore
requests, instead of backup runs.

=item B<stage/volume_prefix>

The prefix to give to staged volume names. When a restore request is processed,
the restored data is stored in a temporary staging volume, and this
configuration directive controls what that volume is named. The default is
"fabs.", so staging volume names will start with "fabs.".

=item B<stage/server>

The AFS fileserver to restore staged volumes to. The default is an invalid
server name, so restores will fail if this is not configured.

=item B<stage/partition>

The partition on B<stage/server> to restore staged volumes to. The default is
an invalid partition name, so restores will fail if this is not configured.

=item B<stage/dir>

The directory in /afs that staging volumes will be mounted in. The default is
an invalid directory, so restores will fail if this is not configured.

=item B<stage/lifetime>

The amount of time, in seconds, that staging volumes will exist before
automatically deleted. Defaults to 1 week, which is 604800 seconds.

=item B<stage/notify_cmd>

The command to run when staging a volume for a restore request has finished,
and the data is accessible. Note that you must specify this as a list, as
described in B<afs/dumpscan>.

The default value for this is usually /etc/fabs/hooks/stage-notify. An example
notify script is provided in that file that demonstrates what information is
provided to that script.

=item B<backend/request_cmd>

When fabs tries to restore a volume, and finds that the volume blob in the
backend storage area is missing, it will request that the volume blob be
restored from tape by running this command.

The output of this command is recorded and associated with the relevant restore
request. For end-user requests, it is also shown to the user. It is intended
that the output of this command provides some kind of reference to the request
to restore the volume blob from disk.

Note that you must specify this as a list, as described in B<afs/dumpscan>. The
default is usually /etc/fabs/hooks/backend-request, which also contains an
example script that demonstrates what kind of information is provided to the
script.

=item B<backend/check_interval>

When fabs runs the B<backend/request_cmd> to restore a volume blob from tape,
fabs periodically checks if the volume blob has been restored, so the restore
request can continue. This directive says how long, in seconds, to wait between
these checks.

The default value is 60 seconds, or 1 minute.

=item B<lockdir>

This specifies the directory to use for lockfiles. Typically you do not need to
change this.

By default, this is set to C</var/lock>.

=item B<bufsize>

The buffer size, in bytes, that FABS uses for some I/O loops. Typically you do
not need to change this.

By default, this option is set to C<1048576> (1 MiB).

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration,
typically in B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
