=head1 NAME

fabsys_restore-start - Create a new restore request

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys restore-start> B<--dump-id> <I<dump_id>> [B<--path> <I<path>>]
                 [B<--note> <I<note>>] [B<--admin>] [B<--user> <I<user>>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys restore-start> command creates a new request to restore a volume from
backup.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--dump-id> <I<dump_id>>

The dump id to restore. Dump ids can be found by using the C<fabsys_dump-find(1)>
command.

=item B<--path> <I<path>>

This specifies the path that a user requested to restore, if this request is
for an end-user that was requested via a path. This is used just for
informational purposes for informing users of what data they were trying to
restore.

=item B<--note> <I<note>>

This adds a free-form note to be associated with this restore request. If none
is provided, the default note just indicates the restore request was initiated
manually from the command line.

=item B<--admin>

This flag indicates that the request is being performed by an administrator,
and so authorization checks are bypassed.

=item B<--user> I<user>

This flag indicates the restore request is being done for a user. Authorization
checks are performed to ensure that the user is permitted to restore the
requested volume.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration
(specifically, the database access information), typically in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
