=head1 NAME

fabsys_dump-find - Find dumps in the FABS backup database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys dump-find> [B<--path> <I<path>>] [B<--volume> <I<volume>>]
    [B<--near> <I<timestamp>>] [B<-n> <I<n_dumps>>] [B<--admin>]
    [B<--user> <I<user>>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys dump-find> command searches for dumps of volumes that have been
backed up by FABS.

This command is intended to be used to find dumps to restore from. See
C<fabsys dump-list> for a similar command to examine volume dumps for
maintenance purposes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--path> <I<path>>

Find dumps that are associated with data in the specified path name. The path
refers to a path in /afs, for example: /afs/cell/foo/bar/baz. FABS will use
data in its backup database to translate the path to a volume, and find volume
dumps for that volume.

Note that all of the path components must be backed up in FABS in order for
this to work properly. For example, say you have a volume "app.foo" mounted at
/afs/cell/app/foo, and a volume "app.root" mounted at /afs/cell/app. If
"app.foo" is backed up, but "app.root" is B<not>, then specifying
B<--path /afs/cell/app/foo> will not be able to find the "app.foo" volume,
since FABS doesn't have the mountpoint data inside /afs/cell/app.

In other words, if a volume is backed up, the "parent" volumes for that volume
should also be backed up. Otherwise, such volumes will not be findable via
B<--path> (but can still be found via other means, such as B<--volume>).

=item B<--volume> <I<volume>>

Find dumps for data in the specified volume. Instead of finding data by path,
this instead just searches for data for the specific volume, and prints the
associated dumps.

=item B<--near> <I<timestamp>>

If this flag is passed, this command will try to find backups from around the
time of the given timestamp. By default without this flag, this command will
just find the most recent dumps instead.

The given time can be given as a unix timestamp with a leading "@" (e.g.
"--near @1644102842"), or as an ISO-8601 string, or any format understood by
the Python module dateutil.parser (e.g. "2022-02-05 23:14:02 UTC").

For backwards compatibility, the timestamp can also be given as a raw unix
timestamp (e.g. "--near 1644102842"). However, this can be ambiguous with other
time specifications, so it is recommended to use the "@" form.

=item B<-n> <I<n_dumps>>

This changes the number of dumps that this command will print out. By default,
it prints information about a maximum of 3 dumps.

=item B<--admin>

This flag indicates that the request is being performed by an administrator,
and so authorization checks are bypassed.

=item B<--user> I<user>

This flag indicates the restore request is being done for a user. Authorization
checks are performed to ensure that the user is permitted to restore the
requested volume.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration
(specifically, the database access information), typically in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
