=head1 NAME

fabsys_backup-start - Start a new FABS backup run

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fabsys backup-start> [B<--note> <I<note>>] (B<--all> | B<--volume> <I<pattern>>)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fabsys backup-start> command creates and starts a new FABS backup run. This
command does not wait for the backup run to finish; it just schedules the
backup run and lets B<fabsys server> actually process it.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--all>

Backup all configured volumes. With this option specified, FABS will backup
volumes according to C<dump/include/*>, C<dump/exclude/*>, and
C<dump/filter_cmd/*> configuration directives. See C<fabsys_config(1)> for more
details.

You must specify either this option, or B<--volume>, but not both.

=item B<--volume> <I<pattern>>

Backup only the specified volume (or volume pattern). With this option
specified, FABS will only try to backup volumes matching the specified
pattern. The pattern is a simple shell-style glob (for example, "vol.*").

You can only specify one pattern at once. If you wish to backup multiple
different individual volumes (instead of all configured volumes), just issue
B<fabsys backup-start> multiple times, with different patterns.

You must specify either this option, or B<--all>, but not both.

=item B<--note> <I<note>>

This option specifies a human-readable arbitrary "note" to be associated with
this backup run. This can be used to indicate why a backup run is being
created, and is displayed by B<fabsys backup-status> when viewing the backup
run's status. For example, you may want to specify a note of "daily backup for
Fri Jun 19" or "retrying backup for app.perl58 after failure last night".

By default, a note is added that indicates the backup run was initiated from a
manual command-line invocation.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGED REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the FABS configuration
(specifically, the database access information), typically in
B</etc/fabs/fabs.yaml.d/>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
